Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a
 computer so that it can be accessed and modified efficiently. Data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and
 the functions or operations that can be applied to the data.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. Operations on Data Structures. The basic operations that are performed on data structures are as follows:
   Insertion: Insertion means addition of a new data element in a data structure.
   Deletion: Deletion means removal of a data element from a data structure if it is found.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.   Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System,
   Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence
what is an Array?
A.  An array is, normally, any collection of objects, related or unrelated,
  arranged systematically. 'Array' is a word infrequently used to describe.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.  An Array list is not a strongly-typed collection. It can store the values of
  different data types or same datatype. The size of an array list increases or decreases dynamically so it can take any size of values from any data type.
  ArrayList is one of the most flexible data structure

what is LinkedList?
A. A linked list is a dynamic data structure. The number of nodes in a
   list is not fixed and can grow and shrink on demand.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.  In array, each element is independent and can be accessed using it's index value. In case of a
    linked list, each node/element points to the next, previous, or maybe both nodes. Linked list can be Linear(Singly),
    Doubly or Circular linked list. ... Whereas, linked list gets memory allocated in Heap section.

what is queue?
A. Java Queue is an interface available in java.util package and extends java.util.Collection interface.
what is stack?
A. A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO is the acronym for First-In, First-Out
  LIFO is the acronym for last-in, first-out.

what is the order of complexity?
A.Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity. Assuming the input is of size N,
  we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.
hat is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.Given an array of n distinct integers and an element x. Search the element x in
  the array using minimum number of comparisons.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.Element can be at 1st position, the last position or somewhere in between. The worst case arises when
  the element is at last position or not in the array,
  therefore we have to traverse the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop.

what is tree in data structure?
A.A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays,
  linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data structures.

what is graph in data structure?
A.graph. (data structure) Definition: A set of items connected by edges. Each item is called a vertex or node.
  formally,a graph is a set of vertices and a binary relation between vertices, adjacency.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.HashMap is not synchronized but allows duplicate keys, it also
  allows one null key and as many null values as you like .
  Hashtable is synchronized and allows duplicate keys, it also
  does not allow null keys or values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap works on the principle of hashing, we have put() and get() method for storing and retrieving
object from HashMap.When we pass both key and value to put() method to store on HashMap.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal
  index. when an index is negative or greater than or equal to the length of the array being indexed.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. Difference between Array and Linked List. ... Basically, an array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under a common heading or a variable name. While a linked list is a data structure which contains a
  sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element.
What is DFS and BFS?
A.The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used
  for traversing and searching a node in a graph.
What is Recursion?
A.Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
  A method that uses this technique is recursive.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one
  after the other. ... Examples of the linear data structure are array, queue, stack, linked list, etc.
What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or
  complexity of an algorithm. Big O specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time
  required or the space used (e.g. in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


